I would really like to write out one or more two quick tests around our sign up route handler.
At this point, we've really only been making sure that the responses that come back are of an appropriate
status code.
So in this case, we're going to take a look at a slightly more in depth test, just slightly.
So in the side of our route.
HANDLER As a quick reminder, we take a look at the email, we make sure the emails use.
We then create and save a user.
We then generate our JSON web token and then we store it on that session object.
Remember, that session object is going to be turned into a string by cookie session.
The cookies session middleware is then going to attempt to send this cookie back over to the user's
browser inside the response to be really precise on what happens there.
In order to send that information back, the cookie session middleware is going to set a header on the
response.
This header has a name of set cookie.
So to make sure that we actually generated JSON Web token and sent it back inside that response, let's
make sure that after signing up successfully, our response has a header of set dash cookie.
We could always also try to inspect that cookie and make sure as a JSON web token.
But let's start small if right now, let's just make sure that the response has that header.
Okay.
So to write out this test, I'm going to go back over to my test file.
I'm going to put together another block at the very bottom and I'll say something like, it sets a cookie
after successful sign up.
Then inside of here, we're going to make another successful signup request rather than writing out
from scratch.
I'll just copy paste the one we did in the last test.
Make sure you copy paste the one that has a status code of 201.
Not the 400.
So I didn't like so.
So now, after making this request, we need to somehow inspect the response that comes back from it.
It turns out that when we make a request with super test, this entire call right here returns the response.
So we can say response like so.
And that right there is our response object, the same kind of response object that we get access to
inside of our request handlers like that one right there.
So we can take a look at that response and try to inspect the data that we're trying to send back inside
of it or also inspect the headers.
Of course, we care about the headers in this case.
So we're going to write out expect response get so get right.
Here is a method that is built into the response that allows us to look up any of the headers that have
been set in the response.
The header that we are going to try to look up is set dash cookie like.
So make sure you use the capital letters as I did.
So we're going to attempt to pull out that cookie and then we will expect that it is defined.
So we'll write out that to be defined like so.
Okay.
So let's save this and run this test.
And I want you to know right away this test is going to fail.
But nonetheless, let's run it anyways.
If I flip back over.
Yep, I see.
As a matter of fact, we got a value of undefined when we try to get that set cookie header, which
means that there is no set cookie header inside the response.
So it looks like our test is failing entirely, even though we know for a fact that we've been able
to sign up using this request handler.
So what's going on right now?
Well, this is a very, very small technical issue.
And this is why I really want to highlight it specifically in a test around checking to see if that
cookie exists as a reminder back inside of our APTs file, which is where we create our Express app
and wire up a bunch of middleware.
When we wired up that cookie session library, we said Secure.
True right there.
Secure.
True means that cookies are only going to be shared when someone is making a request to our server over
an HTTPS connection.
When we make use of super test, we are not making an HTTPS connection, we are making plain HTTP requests.
So Cookie Session sees that and it says, Oh, I don't care that I'm in a test environment, I'm only
sending cookies if this is a secure request in this case, it's not.
We're not making a secure request in the test environment.
So we could either figure out how to make a secure request or alternatively, what would be way easier
to do and way more time effective.
We can decide to change this secure property to false if we are in a test environment.
So if we are running our test through just we're going to flip the value of this thing to false and
that will allow cookie session to set that cookie even if the request is not secure.
So to do so, we'll take a look at another environment variable we're going to put in here.
Process and V node underscore E and v not equal to test.
So whenever Jest runs our tests at the terminal, it's going to set this node environment variable equal
to the string test.
So we're saying that if equals is equal to test, give us false.
Otherwise, if we're in any other kind of environment, be it development or production, then set secure
to true.
Let's save this.
Now, look back over to our terminal and now we're going to see that test pass.
Awesome.
So again, I really just want to highlight the fact that we needed to add in this little change right
here to get all of our authentication stuff working in the test environment.
All right.
Now, as I mentioned, there are a ton of different tests we could write right out around our sign up
request handler.
But I think that what we've put together so far is pretty much good for right now.
I don't want to totally overdo this testing stuff.
In addition, I would like to write out some tests for our other request handlers as well.
So let's take a quick, quick pass right here.
We're going to start to write out some request handlers for all these other some tests for these other
request handlers.
Most of them are going to be pretty similar in nature, but there will be one or two locations where
we run into some other interesting issues.
So let's start to write out these tests in just a moment.